CORE CONCEPTS
An introduction to the essential rules terms and concepts that underpin every Warhammer 40,000 battle.

THE BATTLE ROUND
From manoeuvring your army to unleashing thunderous firepower and brutal assaults, the action in Warhammer 40,000 unfolds in a series of battle rounds in which each player takes a turn.

DATASHEETS AND UNIT ABILITIES
Every Warhammer 40,000 unit has a datasheet, reflecting the characteristics and abilities they can draw upon in battle.

STRATEGIC RESERVES AND STRATAGEMS
From well-timed Strategic Reserves to deftly executed Stratagems, gifted generals make use of all the tactical advantages at their disposal.

TERRAIN FEATURES
Warhammer 40,000 battles are fought across all manner of grim and perilous landscapes, often strewn with ruins, wreckage and other obstacles your forces must navigate while they fight.

MUSTER YOUR ARMY
Use these steps before battle to organise your warriors and war machines into a formidable fighting force.

MISSIONS
Before committing your forces to war, you must first establish your strategic goals and the nature of the battlefield to be fought over. This section presents the essential steps involved in preparing for any kind of Warhammer 40,000 battle.

ABILITIES
Many units in Warhammer 40,000 have one or more abilities listed on their datasheets that they can use in battle. Some of the most common of these are not written out in full on those datasheets, but are instead only referenced by name; the full details of these can be found on the Core Rules page ahead, marked with the symbol shown on the right.

HINTS AND TIPS
Some sections feature Hints and Tips, covering topics like dice-rolling practices and how to ensure you don’t damage your models while moving them around the battlefield. Note that these are not rules, they are simply pieces of advice you may find useful to apply to your own games.

SUMMARIES
Some rules in the sections ahead include bullet-pointed summaries for quick reference purposes. Note that these are not comprehensive, and you should always consult the full rules if you are unsure.